Best Practices for Stories (#6608)
RasaHQ/rasa: docs/docs/writing-stories.mdx

[Rules](./rules.mdx) are a type of training data used by the dialogue manager for
handling parts of conversations that should always follow the same path.

Example use cases for rules include:

* FAQ-style questions where there is a fixed response to a given question
(e.g. "What are the hours of operation?")

* Collecting user information via [Forms](./forms.mdx), such as asking for a mailing address

* [Fallback actions](./fallback-handoff.mdx) for handling messages with low confidence scores

Because rules do not generalize to unseen conversations, they should be reserved for
forms and single turn conversation parts while stories are used for training on
complete conversations.

An example of a rule where the bot returns a fixed response "utter_greet" to a user
message with intent "greet" would be:

```yaml-rasa
rules:
- rule: Greeting Rule
  steps:
  - intent: greet
  - action: utter_greet
```

For multiple-turn interactions, a story should be defined, for example:

```yaml-rasa
 - story: Greeting and ask user how they're doing
   steps:
   - intent: greet
   - action: utter_greet
   - action: utter_ask_how_doing
   - intent: doing_great
   - action: utter_happy
```

> ## When to use Featurized Slots

Reviewer: I would move this into the writing stories tips section

predictions. These slots must be included in your story files when they are set by a
[custom action](./actions.mdx). Most slot types are passed into the dialogue engine as
featurized representations that only take into account whether or not the slot is set.
If the value of the slot itself is important, consider using a categorical or bool
slot type.

For example, a boolean slot set by a custom action can be used to affect the dialogue
flow based on its value using the following stories:

```yaml-rasa
- story: Welcome message, premium user
  steps:
   - intent: greet
   - action: action_check_profile
   - slot_was_set:
     - premium_account: True
   - action: utter_welcome_premium

- story: Welcome message, basic user
  steps:
   - intent: greet
   - action: action_check_profile
   - slot_was_set:
     - premium_account: False
   - action: utter_welcome_basic
   - action: utter_ask_upgrade
```

In cases where you don't want a slot to affect the conversation flow, an unfeaturized
slot should be used. Note that, unlike featurized slots, unfeaturized slots should not
be included in your story files.

> ## Designing Stories

Reviewer: Bring that to the top!! So important

When designing stories, there are two groups of conversational interactions that need

> to be accounted for: happy and unhappy paths. Happy paths describe when the user is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to be accounted for: happy paths and unhappy paths. Happy paths describe when the user is
```

following the conversation flow as you'd expect and always providing the necessary
information when prompted. As you might expect, users will often deviate from happy
paths with questions, chit chat, or other asks, making it important for your bot to

> gracefully handle such scenarios.

Reviewer: Let's specify that we are talking about unhappy paths in this case

Often, developers will try to account for every possible diverging path when designing
unhappy paths. In a happy path with N number of possible branching points, this would
require on the order of 2^N stories! Instead, we recommend taking a
[conversation-driven development](./conversation-driven-development.mdx) approach when designing

> unhappy paths. This means sharing your bot as early as possible with test users and
> collecting real conversation data that tells you exactly how users diverge from the
> happy paths. From this data, you can create stories to accomplish what the user is
> requesting and start to think about ways to guide them back into a happy path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
unhappy paths. 

Conversation-Driven Development promotes sharing your bot as early as possible with test users and
collecting real conversation data that tells you exactly how users diverge from the
happy paths. From this data, you can create stories to accomplish what the user is
requesting and start to think about ways to guide them back into a happy path.
```

### When to put logic in an Action vs. a Story

When writing stories, it's important to find the right balance between using slots and
using custom action code to decide the next action your bot should take. In cases where
a slot value is used only to determine the bot's response, consider embedding the
decision logic inside a custom action as opposed to using a featurized slot in your
stories. This can help reduce overall complexity and make your stories easier to manage.

For example these stories:

```yaml-rasa
- story: It's raining now
  steps:
  - intent: check_for_rain
  - action: action_check_for_rain
  - slot_was_set:
    - raining: True
  - action: utter_is_raining
  - action: utter_bring_umbrella

- story: It isn't raining now
  steps:
  - intent: check_for_rain
  - action: action_check_for_rain
  - slot_was_set:
    - raining: False
  - action: utter_not_raining
  - action: utter_no_umbrella_needed
```

can be converted into a single story:

```yaml-rasa
- story: check for rain
  steps:
  - intent: check_for_rain
  - action: action_check_for_rain
```

with the custom action code:

```python
def run(self, dispatcher, tracker, domain):
	is_raining = check_rain()

> 	if   is_raining:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	if is_raining:
```

We can separate out this long story into several smaller stories as:

```yaml-rasa
- story: Customer loses a credit card
  steps:
  - intent: card_lost
  - action: utter_card_locked
  - action: spending_history_form
  - active_loop: spending_history_form
  - active_loop: null
  - slot_was_set:
  	- reviewed_transactions: ["starbucks"]
  - action: utter_ask_fraudulent_transactions

- story: Customer reviews transactions and gets a new card
  steps:
  - action: utter_ask_fraudulent_transactions
  - intent: inform
  - action: action_update_transactions
  - slot_was_set:
  	- reviewed_transactions: ["target", "starbucks"]
  - intent: affirm
  - action: utter_confirm_transaction_dispute
  - action: utter_replace_card
  - action: mailing_address_form
  - active_loop: mailing_address
  - active_loop: null
  - action: utter_sent_replacement
  - action: utter_anything_else

## Customer has something else they need help with
- story: Customer has something else they need help with
  steps:
  - action: utter_anything_else
  - intent: affirm
  - action: utter_help
```

### Managing Story Files

> You can provide training data to Rasa Open Source in Markdown format as a single file or as a directory containing multiple files. When writing stories, it's usually a good idea to create separate story files based on the types of conversations being represented. For example, you might create a file `chitchat.md` for handling chitchat stories and an `faqs.md` file for FAQ's. Refer to our rasa-demo bot (link here) for examples of story file management in complex assistants.

Reviewer: markdown is deprecated now, lets not mention the format explicitly

## Context Switching

Often, users will not respond with the information you ask of them and instead deviate
from the happy path with unrelated questions. Using [CDD](./conversation-driven-development.mdx) to understand
what unhappy paths your users are taking, you can create stories for handling context
switching.

> ### When to use Rules

Reviewer: This header should match the other, 
```suggestion
### Using Rules for Context Switching
```
and `Using Stories for Context Switching` (i say use instead of write because in the case of rules, you're not writing them as you've pointed out)

In some cases, such as handling single-turn interjections, context-switching can be
handled using [rules](./rules.mdx) instead of through [stories](./stories.mdx).

Consider this conversation scenario:

> Hi, I want to pay my credit card bill <

Author: @erohmensing I'm trying to show an example conversation here, but not entirely sure what the best way to show this in docusaurus would be (or screenshot maybe?). Wdyt?

Reviewer: Ooh i think this is something we want to have a component for! @eliseboyd do you know if this is on our radar yet?

Reviewer 2: @lunelson is this something we can start marking up already (even if the styling isn't final), or are you still in the process of porting it?

Reviewer: I think for now, melinda just did a simple thing like 
```
User: "blaash blah"
  Bot: "nlash blash"
```

yours looks much nicer in markdown, but unfortunately doesn't render well in the theme

> Can do! Which of these credit accounts do you want to make a payment towards?
	- Credit Account A
	- Credit Account B

								      Credit account B <

> How much do you want to pay?

						          What's my account balance? <

> Your current account balance is $1532.00
> How much do you want to pay?

						 I want to pay the minimum balance <

In this example, the user is in the middle of paying their credit card bill, asks for
their account balance, and is then guided back into the credit card payment form.
Because asking for the account balance triggers the same action regardless of context,
you can create a rule that will automatically be triggered inside of an existing flow:

```yaml-rasa
- rule: Check my account balance
  steps:
  - intent: check_account_balance
  - action: action_get_account_balance
```

By default, the form will continue to stay active and re-prompt for the necessary
information, without having to create an additional training story.

### Writing Stories for Context Switching

> Additional stories will need to be written for handling context switching when the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You'll need to write additional stories for handling context switching when the
```
Try to stick to the active voice!
